# April 2023

 It would be a good idea to reset some of the root passwords for servers. 
I may have brought Hydra down (destroyed its connection) when I worked on it last month. I tried to rewrite the bridge from the month prior, but that did not work. After a while, we noticed it had no route to a computer in COSI or mirror, but it could connect to Google. This is nice as it can download updates, but something is still clearly wrong. 
Another thing I noticed on Hydra was that it did have a hole in the firewall, but it was on a non-standard port (not port 22 usually used for SSH). Hydra’s SSH configuration file still uses port 22, which could be another reason why it is not working. We try to have a standard port for SSH in our lab that is not port 22 which is commonly used. Connected to the firewall from Hydra worked.
A lab member, Peter,  told me about the “syslog” or more importantly, that you can use the command “tail -f /var/log/syslog”. The syslog is the system log that lists what is going on in your operating system. I knew about this, but now how it could apply to network debugging. The command specifically will allow the end of the log to automatically refresh. This is nice in order to watch in real time how the system responds when you do things like SSH, place it in a flash drive, etc. This is where I noticed something called UFW BLOCK that was blocking the port for SSH. Turns out, Ubuntu has an integrated firewall for the server you are getting the operating system on. It is called “Ubuntu firewall” (UFW) and it is automatically enabled and blocking ports including the one I needed. All that time, all I had to do was use the command “ufw allow port X” and now everything works.   I applied this UFW knowledge to VMs I could not get to previously.
I was trying to get the switch connected to Red Dwarf out for over an hour. It was physically stuck and those I asked for help could not even get it. The sides of the server (called “ears”) that allow the us to screw the server into the rack are stripped. 
I inserted a replacement switch and configured its VLAN settings for our public and private VLANS. We are now able to ping Red Dwarf.
I learned a little bit about types of cables from another COSI member. Most importantly, ethernet cables use rj-45, but they are not rj-45. This means the ethernet cables have 8 pins for their wires to go in a certain configuration, but other types of cables could have the same 8 pins.
During some more cable management and clean up, we had to unplug the firewall and DNS server. I stepped out for a bit and came back to see that those I left were still working on getting DNS backup. I took a look and the service that runs the authoritative DNS (called nsd for network service discovery) was disabled. All that I needed to do was restart the service. 
